---
published: true  # use "false" while drafting articles just before publishing
title: "[WORK-IN-PROGRESS] Dell XPS 15 9530 laptop Windows/Linux setup & dual-boot install"
tags: 
    - tutorial
    - computers
    - linux
    - ubuntu
# date: 1999-12-31
last_modified_at: 2024-01-03  # updates the "Updated" date at the bottom!
# permalink: /test/
# redirect_from: 
# categories: 
toc: true  # (default for Table of Contents is true)
---

I just bought the brand new top-of-the-line [Dell XPS 15 9530 laptop](https://www.dell.com/en-us/shop/dell-laptops/xps-15-laptop/spd/xps-15-9530-laptop). 

Here's how to set it up for dual-booting Windows 11 and Ubuntu 22.04 LTS.


# Specs: 

1. 13th Gen Intel® Core™ i9-13900H (24 MB cache, 14 cores, up to 5.40 GHz Turbo) - has 20 logical cores, so to the OS it looks like 20 cores
1. Windows 11 Home
1. NVIDIA® GeForce RTX™ 4070, 8 GB GDDR6 video card
1. 16 GB: 2 x 8 GB, DDR5, 4800 MT/s, dual-channel removable RAM
    1. After purchase: upgraded to 64 GB 2x32 GB DDR5 5200 MT/s
1. 512 GB, M.2, PCIe NVMe, SSD in slot 1 [for Windows]
    1. After purchase: added a 2nd 2 TB M.2 7450/6900 MB/s read/write SSD in slot 2 [for Linux]
1. 15.6", FHD+ 1920x1200, 60Hz, Non-Touch, Anti-Glare, 500 nit, InfinityEdge display
1. 130W USB-C power adapter

In order to end up with the absolute top-of-the-line model possible at the cheapest cost, I intentionally got the smallest SSD and RAM possible, then I manually upgraded them myself after purchase. Almost any computer manufacturer overcharges by 2\~3x for RAM and SSD upgrades, so you can save perhaps $300\~$700 or so by doing this yourself.

I chose the non-touchscreen display because: 
1. It's less glossy and will have less glare and reflections when working with a backlight behind you.
1. I don't use touchscreens much, and don't like fingerprints on my screen. 
1. It has better brightness at 500 nit vs 400 nit.

I'll dual-boot Windows 11 and Ubuntu 22.04 LTS. To make it simple, Windows will remain on the first SSD, and Linux will be on the second SSD.


# Notes

This article it intended as notes to myself, and to others with some technical experience. For brand-new beginners, please post questions in the comments below, or do some additional googling or talking to AIs (Bing Chat/Copilot, ChatGPT, Google Bard, GitHub Copilot, etc.) for help. And I'll try to reply to your comments. 

This article is a work-in-progress. I'll update it as I go, and check steps off as I complete them.


# Steps


## Purchase

1. [x] buy everything you need
    1. [X] ifixit kit
        1. Cheap: 
        1. Expensive (recommended): 
    1. [X] buy laptop on Dell.com
        1. [ ] when you buy the laptop from Dell, **add a note to the order requesting that they install the second (right) SSD thermal plate and screw**, or else it won't come with one. If it doesn't come with one, you can either fight with them over support and possibly get it for as little as $1.99 with free shipping, or just buy it yourself on Amazon. Do both. Return the Amazon one if the Dell one comes in time. Or, to save hassle, just keep the Amazon one and be done!
    1. [ ] buy 2nd (right) SSD slot 2 thermal cover and screw on Amazon 
    1. [X] buy RAM on Amazon
    1. [x] buy SSD on Amazon


## Windows setup

1. [x] Boot into Windows 11, which comes on the computer, and log in with your Microsoft account. Set it up as you wish.
1. [ ] mouse touchpad scroll direction
1. [x] install and sign into browsers
1. [ ] Install Logitech mouse tool

1. [x] Run speed test in Windows. Here are my results: 
1. [ ] Install new RAM and SSD
1. [ ] Back up Bitlocker recovery key
1. [ ] configure BIOS
    1. [ ] Change from RAID to AHCI; this uses 3x less power when sleeping in Linux
    1. [ ] Disable Secure Boot


## Linux setup


# 
